This research is centered around Understanding Recovery from Malnutrition in Early Life: A Multi-Omic Analysis of the Infant Gut Microbiome, Plasma Lipidome, and Neurodevelopmental Outcomes. It describes the results of an RCT of 70 Well-nousished kids and 140 MAM kids (70 kids broken down into one on an enhanced refeed method being ERUSF + ESQLNS and 70 on a local refeed method being RUSF + SQLNS). Recovery was defined as returning to WLZ of -1 SD from the mean. Two data points were recorded, 12 months (baseline), then the feeding regimine happened and they either recovered or not, then 24 months post refeed. At both timepoints, Anthropometric measurements, faecal microbiome, plasma lipids, vitamins, and amino acids, sleep measurements, Functioning in chronic illness, percieved stress scale measurements were taken in addition to one timepoint (or no timepoint) parent economics, parent education, Family characteristics (ie multihousehold), Polygenetic risk scores, Household characteristics (roof material etc), Media consumption, and sanitation practices. We have the common, Sex, Delivery mode, and Place of Birth covariates.

I am looking at trying to predict recovery from all of these datasets. To do this I am attemtping to find the most important factors at baseline that have the strongest importance in the prediction (i.e. is genetics more important than the microbiome in predicting recovery from baseline). My strategy is to use mofa+ to create factors from my multiomic dataset and then train a random forest to predict WLZ at 2yr. Then by using SHAP on the factors, splitting the importance by the R2 for each dataset, I intend on finding the relative importance for each dataset in infflunecing recovery.
